This is the application you found attached to the first lecture, here
you're able to see a couple of components I created and you can see that we got a root user component
and then we get two child components, the details and the added component here.
This is also something you see in the app.vue file here, here I get my user component and in there, I got
the two child components.
This is also using scoped styling so that the parent component, the user component has this light blue
background whereas the detail component has the red and the user edit component has the green background
so that we can clearly see what component is well, which component is what.
So this is the set up we're using here,
now the first thing is I want to be able to pass data from the parent to the child and to do this, I
want to simulate that in my user component here,
I actually do have a button I can click to change some data which I then pass down to the user detail
component.
So for that, I'll add a new button in my user component and here, I'll say change my name,
this allows me to well change my name surprisingly. In order to be able to click this button, I need
to add a click listener and I will call change name, a method
I of course have yet to create. Now in order to change it, I in my object down here need to have some
data which can be changed, so I'll add a function as we should in anything which is not in the root vue instance
and here I will return an object holding my data.
Now in this object here, I will have my name which is Max by default
and now I also want to have my methods property, my methods object here where I will have to change
name method using ES6 syntax here with change name and then parentheses.
Here I want to change the name and to change it,
I will simply say this name equals Anna,
so this is the change
I'll make once this method gets called. Now I don't want to output this name in my user component here,
instead I want to output it in my user detail component.
So there let's say I have my many details and one of them is the user name and I somehow want to output
name here
but of course name isn't property in this object.
So I could of course create the object and I could create my data field there and have a name property
but how do I get the name from the parent component?
This is the question I want to answer now.